---
layout: post
title:  "The More You Know - Hover Teams up with the Drug Policy Alliance"
date:   2015-12-18 12:00:00
categories: hover news
slug: "hover-dpa"
anchor: "hover-dpa"

---

Last Sunday, Hover teamed up with the [Drug Policy Alliance](http://www.drugpolicy.org) to create a film that combats the lingering effects of the war on drugs and zero tolerance, scared straight programs like D.A.R.E. These programs, while doing their part to prevent widespread drug abuse among young adults, have in the process ignored and prevented honest dialogue from happening on the subject. According to the DPA, this lack of transparency and conversation has led to an uncritical, self perpetuating culture of discrimination and marginalization based on a lack of real information. Today, the number of Americans incarcerated for drug offenses is larger than the entire prison and jail population was in 1980, and while African Americans only make up 14% of the drug using population, they make up 37% of drug offense arrests. 

According to Jerry Otero, DPA's Youth Policy Director, "We vacillate between 'just say no' and 'just say nothing', or we embellish the facts with exaggerations and misinformation. Too often, the schism that exists between what we tell our children about drugs and their own lived experiences provokes cynicism, mistrust and even more curiosity. So much so, that once they are out on their own, many young folks seem primed for overindulgence. Sometimes with ill-effects."

Last Sunday, we got the conversation started. We conducted one-on-one conversations with young adults from all walks of life, asking them to share their experiences and opinions on drugs without judgement and wagging fingers. We asked them to fill in a blank, presented on a green chalkboard -- "Drugs are ..." The responses we got were articulate, challenging and powerful, planting seeds in the fault lines of our current drug policies. "Drugs are not the point" wrote Kristen, discussing the ways racial profiling interacts with drug policy, "There's all this other shit going on. Lots about racism. Assumptions about people who use drugs". "Drugs are control" wrote Chris, who reflected on his own experience with drug education. "Talking to my parents about drugs is funny for me." said Sophie, "They are a little uncomfortable about it still."

After the shoot, Jerry was kind enough to take some time and share his thoughts on the process and how it all went:

**Hover** – Hi Jerry, how'd the shoot go? 

**JO** – The shoot went very well! We had a great turn out, I think 18 out of the 20 kids we casted showed up which is fantastic. They were a little nervous in the beginning, but I think by the end of it they all left feeling very empowered and supported.

**Hover** – Wow, that's great to hear! How did you end up finding so many young people who were willing to talk so candidly about drugs in front of a camera? 

**JO** – We did a lot of our casting from the DPA network. I also have my own youth arts development program called [Cre8tiveyouthink](https://www.facebook.com/cre8tiveYouth/). We do a lot of murals around the city. 

**Hover** – Nice. How was the whole proceess of collaboration with Hover?

**Jo** – You know, what really won me over was Hover's level of detail and instrastructure. This all happened so quickly and smoothly and I felt like we ultimately got a lot more out of this than we envisioned. 

**Hover** – About how long did the pre-production take? 

**JO** – Ethan and I met for the first time back in October during a Horizons conference and didn't start discussing this project until a little bit after. We couldn't have been in pre-production for this for more than 3 weeks. 

**Hover** – Word. I've been checking out all the behind the scenes stills and in progress edits. It's a really nice, focused feel. 

**JO** – Ethan came up with the idea for the chalkboard which was great. Can't wait to see the first edits! 

**Hover** – Same here Jerry! 

*Source: Hover*